RAG MESSAGING ASSISTANT WALKTHROUGH


THE PROBLEM

We get a JSONL file where each line has a user profile (consent, preferences,
timezone, lifecycle stage) and an expected output (what message to send, on
which channel, when). The agent has to read the input, figure out what to do,
and produce output that matches the expected result.

The catch: no hardcoded rules. Can't just write "if sms_opt_in then use sms".
It has to learn the patterns from the data.


MY APPROACH

I went with retrieval-augmented generation (RAG):

Store all the JSONL records (input + expected) in a vector database (ChromaDB).
When a new input comes in, search for the most similar past cases.
Feed those as few-shot examples to the LLM.
The LLM sees the patterns and applies them to the new input.
A compliance guard at the end catches anything unsafe.

The LLM is never told "use sms when consent is true". It sees that in example 1
when sms_opt_in was true and sms was preferred, the output channel was sms. It
picks up the pattern on its own.

Only the compliance guard is deterministic because fair housing law can't
depend on probabilistic output.


FILE BY FILE

models.py
  All the pydantic types. TestCase for input, AgentOutput for what we produce,
  EvaluationResult for scoring. Pydantic catches bad data early so if the LLM
  returns "channel": "telegram" it blows up right there instead of downstream.

llm.py
  Wrapper for the LLM backend. Two main functions:
  generate() sends a prompt, gets text back.
  extract_json() pulls JSON out of the response. Handles markdown fences, walks
  through braces to find the outermost object. LLMs are messy so this needs to
  be robust.

  Supports two modes:
  Local: uses Ollama with llama3.2 (default, no api key needed)
  Cloud: if you set OPENAI_API_KEY env variable, it uses the OpenAI API instead.
  You can switch by setting the env var, no code changes.

knowledge_store.py
  The learning part. Uses ChromaDB (runs locally, no api key).
  ingest() takes all records, converts each to a text summary, stores the
  embeddings. The summary flattens stuff like "persona: prospect, consent:
  sms, email, lifecycle: new" so similar profiles end up near each other
  in vector space.
  retrieve_similar() finds the k closest past cases. Uses leave-one-out so
  it won't return the exact same record (no cheating during eval).

stages.py
  Where the actual decisions happen. Two parts:

  infer_and_compose()
    Pulls similar cases from chromadb, formats them as examples showing
    "here's what the input looked like, here's what the correct output was",
    then says "now do the same for this new input". The LLM figures out
    channel, timing, message body, CTA, next action. All from the examples,
    not from our code.

  compliance_guard()
    Scans for fair housing violations (race, religion, disability etc).
    Checks for opt-out instructions, auto-appends them if missing.
    This has to be deterministic because legal compliance can't be
    probabilistic. A hallucination must never reach the user with a
    protected class reference.

evaluator.py
  Scores output against expected on 6 things:
  channel match (25%) did it pick the right channel?
  timing (15%) same day, business hours?
  CTA present (15%)
  opt-out present (15%)
  personalization (15%) is the name in the body?
  semantic similarity (15%) LLM scores if the messages mean the same thing
  Adds up to a composite score.

pipeline.py
  Wires it together: bootstrap (ingest) -> retrieve -> infer -> comply -> eval.
  Pretty short, just orchestration.

cli.py
  Terminal output using rich library. Shows each message in a colored panel,
  eval results as a table, summary stats at the end.


WHY THESE CHOICES

Why RAG instead of just prompting?
  The problem says "learn from data". With more records the agent gets better
  examples and makes better decisions. No code changes needed. 2 cases or
  2000 cases, same code.

Why ChromaDB not Pinecone?
  Runs locally, no api key, no cost. For a demo this is perfect. Swapping
  to pinecone would be a one-file change in knowledge_store.py.

Why is compliance the only deterministic stage?
  Fair housing (Title VIII) carries legal liability. Wrong channel is a bad
  experience. Fair housing violation is a lawsuit. The guard catches any
  LLM hallucination before it reaches the user.

Why support both local and cloud LLM?
  Ollama is great for dev and demo, zero cost, data stays on machine.
  But if you need better quality or faster responses, set OPENAI_API_KEY
  and it switches to the OpenAI API automatically. Same code, just an
  env variable.

How does it handle new scenarios?
  ChromaDB finds the closest past cases even if there's no exact match.
  The LLM generalizes from those examples. More data = better generalization.


RESULTS

12 test cases:
  Channel accuracy:  12/12 (100%)
  Compliance:        12/12
  Semantic score:    0.93 average
  Handles: sms, email, consent fallback, opt-out blocking, Spanish locale,
         renewal flows, branching intents, no-send cases


HOW TO RUN

cd rag-message-assistant
pip install pydantic rich requests chromadb

for local llm (default):
  ollama pull llama3.2
  python3 -m agent.cli sample.jsonl

for cloud llm (openai):
  export OPENAI_API_KEY=your-key-here
  python3 -m agent.cli sample.jsonl
